# Galley 

Set up a Linux build environment with Ubuntu on Digital Ocean. Starts a
droplet, clones your project and initiates the build in a remote `tmux`
session. Use 48 CPUs to build while keeping your laptop cool with vintage
analog systems administration technology.

![Vintage gentlemen riding
velocipedes](https://pinecab.com/assets/images/velocipede.jpg "controlbikes")

## Setup

Galley is meant to be cloned into `~/.config/galley`, but you may set
`GALLEY_PATH` instead if you prefer. See `etc/defaults` for config variables
and their default values; see `etc/example` for an example config.

You'll need to put the md5 hash of one of your Digital Ocean public ssh keys in
the `GALLEY_KEY` environment variable or override the variable `key` with it in
your configs. You can get the md5 hash
[here](https://cloud.digitalocean.com/account/security).

You will also need
[doctl](https://docs.digitalocean.com/reference/doctl/how-to/install)
installed.

You may wish to link or copy `bin/gal` into your `PATH` for convenience.

If you fork the project and only add files (don't modify the included files)
you can easily manage your configs in the same repo without worrying about
merge conflicts when syncing with the upstream repo. See `etc/defaults` for
more details.

## ðŸ’£ Alert ðŸš¨

Galley is for building software and similar tasks, not for managing production
infrastructure.

The minimum charge for a droplet is one hour--there are options in
`etc/defaults` ranging from $0.01USD/hr to $1.50USD/hr. Do not forget to turn
off that 48-CPU build host when you're finished with it.

## Usage

`gal s example` and `gal d example` should work without further configuration
if you have a valid `GALLEY_KEY` in your environment, but you probably at least
want to configure a project to build and use a droplet with more CPUs. See
`etc/seastar` for an example config that creates a
[cooking](https://github.com/scylladb/seastar/blob/master/HACKING.md)
environment for [Seastar](https://github.com/scylladb/seastar).

### start

`gal s <config>` will start a Digital Ocean droplet, install required packages,
clone the repo and begin the build in a `tmux` session. You will find logs in
`/build/apt.log` `/build/build.log` and `/build/git.log`. An `ssh` command to
connect to the server will be provided when `gal start` completes. Use `tmux
attach` to connect to the build session or `tail -f /build/build.log` if you
prefer.

### delete

`gal d <config>` will delete the Digital Ocean droplet started by `gal start`.

### ls

`gal l` is an alias for `doctl compute droplet ls` that will list all your
current droplets and their IDs. You can delete a droplet by passing its
ID to `gal rm`.

### rm

`gal r <ID>` is an alias for `doctl compute droplet delete <ID>` and will
delete the droplet specified by the ID. Use `gal ls` to find droplet IDs.

## Testing

Run `bin/gal-test` for an end-to-end test--it will take a few minutes. Note
that this runs live on Digital Ocean and you will be charged, albeit only
$0.01USD. `bin/gal-test` is primarily intended for use when working on Galley
itself; it likely provides no benefit to an end user.
